#summary Frequently Asked Questions
#labels Featured
Frequently Asked Questions:
<wiki:toc/>

= About the Library and its Authors =
Information on this project, its authors, and its roots.
----

== What is Solr? ==
 Solr is an open source enterprise search server based on the Lucene Java search library, with XML/HTTP and JSON APIs, hit highlighting, faceted search, caching, replication, a web administration interface and many more features. It runs in a Java servlet container such as Tomcat.

For more information about Solr, please see the [http://lucene.apache.org/solr/ Solr Web Page] .

This client was originally in Solr's issue tracker: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SOLR-341
----

==Why the New BSD license?==
Conduit originally submitted the PHP client to the Solr project under the Apache 2.0 license so that it was compatible to be included in the Solr distribution. Since then, we've been asked several times to allow the client to use other licenses so it could be included in other projects (e.g. a Drupal search plugin).  We think that the new BSD license is the most compatible with the largest number of other OSS licenses.
----

==Who is Conduit IT?==
Conduit Internet Technologies, Inc. is the company where I work. We started using Solr to augment our search capabilities in 2007 and continue to use it today. At the time there were PHP code samples for how to interface with Solr, but we saw a need for something more. I asked my employer for permission to distribute the client source as OSS, and they happily allowed it.

For more information on Conduit, please see [http://conduit-it.com Our Web Page].
----

= General Usage =
General usage questions.
----

== What Example Code is Available? ==
I plan to add Wiki pages shortly to further flush out example usage more than I've done currently in my source code comments. In the mean time there was a good article on IBM developer works that featured our PHP client:

 http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/library/os-php-apachesolr/

NOTE: The syntax error mentioned is no longer present, and was the embarrassing result of me releasing an untested cosmetic change I made. I learned my lesson :)
----

== How do I Add Document / Field Boosts? ==
There are two levels of boost available in every document. Document level boosts apply to the whole document when searching. Field level boosts apply only to a particular document field.

The Apache_Solr_Document class contains methods for setting a document level boost as well as individual field boosts. You'll need to use the document class for adding documents to solr that you want boosts on. The methods used below should all be documented in their related documentation blocks in source as well.

{{{
...

$document = new Apache_Solr_Document();

// set a boost for the document
$document->setBoost(2);

// get the current document boost
$document->getBoost();

// add a field with a boost as the last parameter
$document->addField("field", "value", 2);

// get a current field's boost
$document->getFieldBoost("field");

...
}}}
----